Kolb

Chapter 2: The process of experimental learning (20--38)

Immediate personal experience is the focal point for learning, giving life, texture, and subjectibe personal meaning tp abstract concepts and at the same time providing a concrete, publicly shared reference point for testing the implications and validity of ideas created during the learnig process.

Learning is best conceived as a process, not in terms of outcomes.

Learning is the process whereby knowledgeis created through the transformation of expereince.


Chapter 5: The structure of knowledge (99--131)

>>Fig 5.3, 5.4 Physics/Astronomy/Mathematics: Hard (abstract/mathemaical), quite reflective (basic/no consulting)


Chapter 7: Learning and development in higher education (161--208)

Disciplines, as we have seen, show sociocultural variation---differences in faculty and student demographics, personality, and aptitudes, as well as diffrences in values and group norms. For students, education in an academic field is a continuing process of selection and socialization t othe pivotal norms of the field governing criteria for truth and how it is to be achieved, cummunicated, and used, and secondarily, to peripheral norms governing personal styles, attitudes, and social relationships. Over time, these selection and socialization pressures combine to produce an increasingly impermeable and homogeneous disciplinary culture and correspondingly specialized student orientations to learning.

Many students, for example, resist required courses designed to broaden their interestes. One way to deal with this problem is for teacher and student to share explicitly their respective theories of learning. From this discussion, the student can gain insight into why the subject matter is taught as it is and what adjustments he need make in his approach to learning this subject.

Learning becomesa skill that can be improved and coached.


Chapter 8: Lifelong learning and integrative development (208--230)

For many, choices made earlier have led down pathways no longer rewarding, and some kind of change is needed. At this point, many finally face up to the fact that they will never realize their youthful draems and that new, more realistic goals must be found if life is to have purpose. Others, even if successful in their eearlier pursuits, discover that they have purchased success in career at the expense of other responsibilities (such as to spouse and children) or other kinds of human fulfilment. Continued accentuation of an overspecialized version of oneself eventually becomes stultifying---one begins t ofeel stuck, static, in a rut.